# SmootherExps 


## SmootherExps API

The `SmootherExps.jl` sub-module configures twin experiments using a stored time series as generated by 
[GenerateTimeSeries](@ref) to generate hyper-parameter configurations for the estimtor with the same
underlying observation generating process.
Experiment configurations are generated by function calls as with the filter experiments, but with the additional
options of how the outer-loop is configured with a classic, single-iteration or the fully iterative Gauss-Newton style smoother.
The parameters `lag` and `shift` specify how the data assimilation windows are translated in over the observation
and analysis times.  The `mda` parameter is only applicable to the single-iteration and Gauss-Newton style smoothers,
utlizing sequential multiple data assimilation.  Note, the single-iteration and fully iterative Gauss-Newton style smoothers are
only defined for MDA compatible values of lag and shift where the lag is an integer multiple of the shift.

Currently debugged and validated smoother experiment configurations include
```
classic_state          -- classic EnKS style state estimation
classic_param          -- classic EnKS style state-parameter estimation
single_iteration_state -- single-iteration EnKS state estimation
single_iteration_param -- single-iteration EnKS state-parameter estimation
iterative_state        -- Gauss-Newton style state estimation
iterative_param        -- Gauss-Newton style state-parameter estimation
```
Other techniques are still in debugging and validation.  Each of these takes an analysis type as used in the
`transform` function in the `EnsembleKalmanSchemes.jl` sub-module, like the filter analyses in the filter experiments.


All experiments are funcitonalized so that they can be called from an array of parameter
values which will typically be varied with naive parallelism.  Relevant arguments and
experimental results are dumped as a side effect to a dictionary in a JLD2.
Experiments return their runtime in minutes.


## Docstrings
```@autodocs
Modules = [DataAssimilationBenchmarks.SmootherExps]
```
